“I can’t believe she said yes.”, Derek said as he walked down the school hallway.
“Prom is going to be great!”
As he walked down the hall, he heard a low moan come out of the janitor’s closet. He could see the door was shaking as he moved closer. His curiosity was too much for him to control, he reached out and opened the door. He felt a light breeze against his face.
“Hello, anybody in there?”
Walking in, the door closes behind him.


Janitor’s closet – Long Description.
Derek looks around but it is too dark to see. He takes out his cellphone and uses the light to look around. As he does so, he sees a rusty skeleton key laying on the floor. On a small table, there is a well worn hammer. To his left, he sees a narrow stairway hewn out of rock that leads down. There are old wooden boards crossing the entrance to the stairway, blocking it. To the right of the stairs an anteroom. There is a picture hanging on the far wall of the anteroom.
Janitor’s closet – Short Description.
There is a rusty skeleton key on the floor. On a small table, there is a hammer. To the left is a stairway with wooden boards. To the right is an anteroom with a picture.

Derek examines the picture, it is a painting of forest trees along a white river.
Derek places the key in his backpack and  uses the hammer to break the  wooden boards until he can fit through. Walking down the stairway for what seems like miles, Derek finds himself in an ice cavern.



Ice Cavern – Long Description
Ice covers every surface. In an alcove cut into the west wall there is a small shelf, on the shelf there is a blue glass bottle. Below, stacked on the floor, are several large ice blocks. To the east, a cold river runs North - South. Large ice blocks, just like the ones stacked under the alcove, occasionally flow downstream.
Ice Cavern – Short Description
There is a small shelf with a blue bottle, on the wall are several large ice blocks. To the east is a river.

Derek takes the blue glass bottle.
Sliding a block of ice into the river, Derek hops on and begins to sail downstream. As he floats along, the smell of growing things begin to fill his nose. The river ends in a large forest.

Enchanted Forest – Long Description
Large trees with hanging moss as far as the eye can see dominate the landscape, after a recent rain, petrichor fills his nose. He looks around and notices branches that have fallen are scattered about. To his left, a trail heads deeper into the forest. There are large boulders next to the river. There is movement between the boulders.
Enchanted Forest – Short Description
There are branches on the ground and large boulders next to the river. To the left, a trail heads deeper into the forest.

Derek examines the space between the two nearest boulders. But it is too tight of a spot for him to see between.
Derek uses a stick to separate the boulders. Small but wildly colorful frogs come out from under the boulders to investigate. One of the frogs, a bright red and yellow one jumps onto a large boulder and stares at Derek.
“What brings you here friend?”, says the frog.
A startled Derek can’t believe the frog is talking to him.
“uh, uh. I’m lost, I don’t know where I’m at and I just want to go home.” Derek says with tears starting to well in his eyes.
“Lost you are, this is the enchanted forest of Maldigar.  My name is Quintix”, says the frog. 
“My name is Derek”, he says awkwardly . He reaches out his hand to greet Quintix.
“Stop!” screams Quintix
“One touch of my skin kills most creatures”, says Quintix
“There are many dangers here, perhaps I can join you on your journey.” , Quintix smiles.
“I can’t touch you, how will you join me”, asks Derek
Opening the top of the blue glass bottle, Quintix climbs in.
“This will be perfect”, says Quintix.
 After doing so, Derek grabs a stick and heads up the trail.



Base Camp - Long Description
As Derek walks through the enchanted forest, he comes across a clearing set between the trees.   A dilapidated tent rests near a rocky, moss covered outcropping. It appears that somebody had used this place as a base camp and left a tent behind. The tent is still standing but the rear right corner is leaning in where a tent spike has pulled out. The front tent flaps dance with the gentle breeze. The tent has seen better days. Near the tent, is a small entrance to a cave. 
Base Camp - Short Description
There is an abandoned tent and a small cave entrance.

Derek pokes the tent flaps with his stick, afraid something is going to jump out. Timidly, he walks inside the tent to find debris scattered about. Looking closer, he finds a large flashlight and a container of instant coffee. Derek exits the tent.
Leaving the tent, he decides to enter the cave. It is pitch dark, he can’t even see his hand in front of his face. Using the flashlight, he notices the path slopes downward gently. The cave is moist. At the bottom of the path, Derek enters a large chamber filled with stalactites and stalagmites. The sound of dripping water can be heard.

Underground Grotto - Long Description
Inside the chamber, Derek looks around and  sees a beautiful purple crystal laying on the ground. It sparkles and has a strange glow around it. Shining his flashlight, letters appear inside the crystal. To his left, he finds a large body of water. The water is very clear and not too deep. Concentric rings of ripples from water dripping from stalactites decorate the water.  There is a small canoe tied to a stalagmite.
Underground Grotto - Short Description
There is a purple crystal laying on the ground. To the left, there is a large body of water. A small canoe is tied up.


Derek takes the crystal and unties the canoe. Using the stick, he propels himself across the water.
”I know this place”, says Quintix 
“There is an entrance to the Library of Magical Tomes on the other side”
“What’s a tome” asks Derek
“Err, a tome is like a book…”, replies Quintix. “Perhaps you can find your way home in the Library.”
“That would be great”, Derek says.
Reaching the shore, Derek gets out of the canoe and looks around. Ahead of him is a large door studded with iron and a lock that looks very sturdy.
Using the skeleton key, Derek opens the door and walks inside.

Library of Magical Tomes - Long Description
The library is large with many bookshelves filled with old books.  There are several tables and chairs scattered throughout. In the center of the room, there is a table with a lamp, an open book rests there under the light. Behind the table on the far wall, a large window set several feet from the floor streams sunlight.
Library of Magical Tomes - Short Description
A library filled with books. There are several tables and chairs scattered throughout. On the far wall is a large window.

Approaching the table, Derek looks at the book. The spine says “Tome of Aperture”. Derek doesn’t know what to do or say.
-         "I’m sure that will come in handy on your travels Derek “, says Quintix.
-         “Ok, but I can’t make any sense of the words. I’m surprised I could even read the title", quips  Derek.
-         Quintix explains, “These tomes are very powerful.  They all serve a purpose but sometimes they do other, unexpected things.”
Derek takes the book and places it in his backpack.
-         “Now how do I get out of here? We can’t go backwards, I don’t think. We have to keep going. This place is weird Quintix. I’m never going to get home. I’m going to miss the prom with Eleanor, the most beautiful girl I’ve ever met.”
-         “Don’t worry my friend,  there’s plenty of time to get you home", Quintix says with a wide smile. “Perhaps the window is a way out".
-         “I’m not tall enough to reach the window though.”
Derek slides a table under the window and is able to pull himself through. He finds himself in another room filled with armored suits and all kinds of weapons.

The Armory - Long Description
The room is like an armor museum. Hundreds of armor suits on stands behind glass enclosures fill the room. Most of the displays are on large pedestals, several feet above Derek’s head. One set of armor is at floor level. At the end of the room is a large wooden door. There is a sconce set into the door with a small candle that is burning.
The Armory - Short Description
There are hundreds of armor displays, one is at floor level. At the end of the room is a large wooden door with a sconce set into it.
Derek examines the armor suit on the floor stand.  In each gauntlet,  there is a weapon.  One hand has an axe, the other holds a whip. Derek takes the weapons.
 Walking to the door at the end of the room, Derek discovers that there is no visible lock, just a small ring on the backside of the sconce. Above the door, there is writing that he’s seen before, but can’t decipher.
Placing the purple crystal into the sconce, the words he saw before are cast onto the door by the light of the candle.  Slowly, the letters reassemble themselves into words he can read.  
“ If home it is you seek, follow the Misty River to the Golden Beach. Help can be found but must be unwound. Set your course for the source of the Misty River”
The door slowly opens.
“Ok, which way do we go? Do you know where the Misty River is located?
“I’m a frog. I can smell water”, Quintix says with a grin.
“Once we go through the door, head east. The Misty River cannot be far.
 “After you “, says Quintix pointing to the door.
 “Alright, here we go. “

The Misty River - Long Description
The Misty River has water as white as milk and the bottom cannot be seen. The river stretches roughly East/West but because the river moves so slowly, you cannot tell which direction it flows. Leaves are scattered around the edge of the river bank. An iron gate and fence block the path leading to the river.
The Misty River - Short Description
The white as milk Misty River stretches east/west. Leaves are scattered around the back, an iron fence and gate block the path leading to the river.

Derek examines the Gate. It has a sturdy lock and the entrance appears to be controlled by a lever that sits on a pedestal, just out of his reach.
Derek uses the whip to wrap around the lever, with a heave, the lever slides forward, unlocking the gate.
Derek walks through the gate towards the river.
“Which way is the source? I can’t see what direction it flows?”
“Yes, very peculiar”, says Quintix.
Derek places a leaf onto the river. Instead of drifting with the current, the leaf sinks immediately.
“Ok, umm, I guess we won’t be swimming upstream. Which ever way up happens to be.
Derek takes out the container of instant coffee and pours some of it into the river. The coffee dissolves as soon as it hits the Misty River. Before disappearing completely, it leaves a short trail that stretches from right to left.
“Not bad Derek, I think you found the way”, says Quintix
The pair of travelers head up stream to the right. Before long, the come upon the Golden Beach

The Golden Beach -  Long Description
Fine grain sand, the color of gold dust fills the beach at the head of the river.  Vine covered statues are placed in a semi-circle around a central statue of a figure that has it’s arm outstretched as if it is pointing towards something, it is covered in vines from head-to-toe.  Beyond the clearing is a trail and a marker.
The Golden Beach -  Short Description
A beach with golden sand sits at the head of the river. Vine covered statues are visible. Beyond the clearing is a trail.

“It’s like nothing I’ve ever seen before”, says Derek.
“Truly, it is mesmerizing”, says Quintix.
Derek examines the central statue and notices something in the center of itschest.
He pulls the axe out of his backpack and begins to cut away the vines. In the chest is a small golden figure the same shape as the larger statue.
Derek takes the golden figure and puts it into his backpack.
“Now what?”, asks Derek.
“I suppose we need to keep walking. Well, you need to walk, I’m hitching a ride in the bottle”, says Quintix.
Derek examines the trail marker but can’t quite make out the faint letters on it’s wind worn flat surface.

Derek places a handful of golden sand onto the marker and rubs it in with his hand. The letters become visible.
“TO THE HEALING ORACLE ----->”
“I guess we should go that way”, says Derek
“Yup, let’s go”, says Quintix
After walking down the path, past a bend, a large white building with columns at the top of some stairs is there.  

The Healing Oracle - Long Description
A large stone building with ornate carved decorations stands tall.  At the top of the stairs are rows of columns with carvings in each one.  Above the columns, the words “Healing Oracle” are carved into the stone. There is an entrance at the top of the steps, blocked by an iron portcullis. Pathways of cut stone pavers encircle the building to the right.
The Healing Oracle - Short Description
A large stone building with “Healing Oracle” carved into the stone. The entrance is blocked by an iron portcullis. A pathway encircles the building to the right.

Examining the columns, Derek finds a relief that looks just like the golden figure.
“Check it out Quintix, this carved relief looks like the golden figure, I wonder if it’s a switch or something.
Derek places the figure into the column. A loud rumbling of gears can be heard. Behind him, the portcullis slowly raises revealing a dark hallway. 
Using the flashlight, Derek enters cautiously. Inside to his right, he sees a small but ornate table with a silver chalice.  Directly in front of him, he sees an apothecary table and chest of drawers.
Examining the drawers, all are empty except for one marked “Tea of Regeneration”
Derek takes the vial of elixir out of the drawer and places it into his backpack.
“This will come in handy I think”, says Quintix.
“Yes, at least it can’t hurt...I hope”, says Derek
Derek examines the silver chalice. It is engraved on the inside of the cup with symbols he can’t decipher. On the outside are small blue and green gems.
Derek takes the chalice and places it into his backpack.
“Now where to”, asks Derek.
“Well, maybe we follow the path that winds around the building”, says Quintix
“ That’s as good a choice as any I guess”, says Derek.
The path leads them through the woods to a Crossroad.  

The Cross Roads - Long Description
The Cross Roads is a place that you can find anything you desire. Hundreds of shops are scattered about a central circle. To the rear of the clearing, narrow roads lead off into multiple directions. At the entrance to the center there is a merchant and his stand filled with baubles. The Merchant is looking at Derek and gestures for him to come nearer. Behind all the stands, multiple roads lead off into different directions. Each road entrance has a sign next to it.
The Cross Roads - Short Description
Hundreds of shops are in a clearing. Behind all the stands, multiple roads lead off into different directions. Each road entrance has a sign next to it.


“Have you come to buy or trade my friend? Welcome to the Bizarre Bazaar. I am at your service”, said the merchant.
“I don't really need anything, I'm just trying to get home”, said Derek.
“Ahh, I have just the thing for a lost weary traveler, but what can you give me in return”, asks the merchant.
“Hit him with the axe”, Quintix whispers into Derek’s ear.
“Err... no Quintix. I’m not going to hit him.”
“Suit yourself”, mumbles Quintix.
Derek hands him the silver chalice.
“This is perfect. I agree to this trade”, says the merchant with a smile.
“But what do I get”, asks Derek.
“ This is what you need, the Compass of Exigency”, says the merchant as he hands Derek the compass.
“It is a special compass. it will guide you where you need to go. It may not be what you want, but it will always be where you need to go”, exclaims the merchant.
 “Happy trails”, the merchant says as he pulls the curtain closed around the shop.
Derek examines the compass. It is made of a metal he can’t identify. The face has no markings and the needle spins lazily, never stopping.
“I just want to go home”, says Derek
As those words are spoken, the needle stops spinning.
“I always thought you could use a little direction in your life”, quips Quintix.
“Ha ha” says Derek dryly. “It’s pointing at the first trail to the left of the merchant.”
The trail marker reads “Road of Terrors”
“I don’t think I want to go that way, I just want to go home”, said Derek
The compass needle again stops spinning and points to the same trail.
“Time to go young man”, says Quintix.


The Road of Terror - Long Description
The road slowly darkens as the tree canopy thickens. Trash and the occasional bone litter the road. To the left is a dilapidated hut, the chimney is smoking. To the right is a small bridge that crosses a fast moving creek. The hut has a partially open window on the east side and a door on the south side.
The Road of Terror - Short Description
The road is heavily littered. There is a dilapidated hut to the left and a small bridge to the right.


The door is locked and cannot be opened.
Derek heads to the east side and looks through the window. As he peers through, a large tree ogre rushes towards him.
“I caught you this time you little thief”, screamed the ogre.
“ No, no, I didn’t steal anything”, says Derek with his hands in a defensive position.
“ It’s true, he didn’t do anything”, says Quintix.
“He dies just the same”, the ogre screams as he slashes at Derek with a knife.
“Oh I got something for you”, Quintix snarls as he leaps on the ogre’s face.
Smoke curls from the ogre’s face as his skin turns a bright red; as he falls to the ground, dead.
“How do you like that Derek? Don’t mess with the frog!”, says Quintix
Derek wriths on the ground, moaning, blood begins to pool around him. The ogre’s knife found its mark.
Thinking fast, Quintix retrieves the Tea of Regeneration.
“Drink this young man, it will fix you right up!”
Derek drinks the elixir. Right before his eyes, the wound heals and disappears. Not even a scar is left.
“Where to Quintix? Do we follow the road or take the bridge?”
“I’m not sure”, replies Quintix
Derek takes out the compass and says “I want to go home”.  The needle stops spinning and points in the direction of the bridge.
Deep in the woods, the pair find another building, the Hall of Mirrors.

Hall of Mirrors - Long Description
The Hall of Mirrors is a dark building with  many gables and gargoyles along the roof edges. Vines flow down the walls. On the West side lies an entrance. The South side has a cellar door. Windows are along the East and North sides of the building.
Hall of Mirrors - Short Description
The Hall of Mirrors is vine-covered. There is an entrance on the west side, a cellar door on the South side, windows on East and North sides.

The door is locked and cannot be opened.
The windows are locked and cannot be open
Pulling the door of the cellar, it opens with a loud thud.
Entering the Hall of Mirrors, the cellar is filled with objects covered in dusty sheets. On the far wall, a stairway goes up onto the main floor.
Walking up the stairs, Derek sees rows upon rows of mirrors. At the end of the room is the most ornate mirror in the room. Walking down the center aisle some mirrors make him taller, others distort his body.
“Kinda weird. I guess that is what I would look like if I was tall” laughs Quintix.
“Right, I’ve seen this kind of place at the fair”, adds Derek.
Derek examines the ornate mirror at the end. The frame is covered with symbols and the mirror glows a faint yellow.
Holding the opened Tome of Aperture, words coalesce onto the mirror. 
“ All journey’s must come to an end. The noble traveler, lost and weary must say the words of desire clearly. Find his way, the heart wants deeply. Through this portal, the one he loves so dearly.”

Derek steps through the mirror and finds himself in an ornate throne room. 


Throne Room - Long Description
A large room with a central throne, a King in royal arraignment sits. Guards line the walls on both sides. There are six doors, three to a side. Guards with crossed halberds guard each door.
Throne Room - ShortDescription
A large room with a King and his guards. There are six doors that are being guarded.


The King stands with a scepter in his hand and looks towards Derek.
“Welcome young Derek, I am glad that you made it this far. I am Magnus, King of Maldigar”.
“I greet you King Magnus. Please forgive me if I’m at a loss for words. It’s been a long day, I don’t know where I’m at and frankly, I just want to go home.”
Quintix jumps to the ground and looks at Derek.
“You're a lot closer than you think my friend!”
King Maldigar points his scepter at Quintix. A plume of smoke covers him. When it clears, a man is standing there.
“Mr. Q, what are you doing here?” asks Derek as he sees the school janitor materialize before his eyes.
“It’s an interesting story but my real job is to protect the princess. I’ll let her explain it”, says Quintix.
From behind the throne, out walks Eleanor. She is dressed in a beautiful flowing gown the color of milky jade.
“Hello Derek, it is good to see you”, says Eleanor
“Eleanor!, it’s you. I’m so sorry I didn’t make it to prom. I really wanted to go with you. But I don’t understand what’s going on here.
“Derek, says Elenor, my Father the King is very protective of me.  He wanted to make sure you were worthy of taking me to the prom.” Eleanor said while blushing. “ I just wanted to go to the prom too, which is tonight by the way. You didn’t miss it”.
“It’s true Derek”, said the King, “And you performed admirably.” “As a token of appreciation I give you this medallion. It will allow you to return any time you wish. Take care of my daughter, don’t make me send one of my guards to visit you”.
“Thank you King Magnus, I will guard her with my life”, says Derek as he bows with a flourish.
Derek examines the Medallion. It is rose gold in color, engraved on it is a forest of trees next to a white river.
The King  and Quintix walk behind the throne and disappear. Derek and Eleanor are left with the guards.
The guards stare straight ahead with no facial expressions.
“Time to go home Derek, choose the door”, says Eleanor as she too walks behind the throne and disappears from sight.
Derek takes the compass out of his backpack and  whispers “I just want to go home”. The needle stops spinning and points to the second door on the left.
Derek examines the door, it has a picture carved into it. A forest of trees with a white river is in the center.
Derek touches the medallion that the king gave him to the door, it opens.
Walking through the door, Derek finds himself back in the anteroom that adjoins the Janitor’s closet. The door closes behind them. 

The Anteroom - Long Description
The Anteroom is a simple room, much like a lounge with a small couch and table. The door hangs ajar, there is a picture of forest trees along a white river on the front of the door. On the table is a box with a silver bow. Quintix sits on the couch, reading the paper.
The Anteroom - Long Description
There is a small couch and table. A picture is on one wall. The table has a box with a silver bow


“Welcome back young man, I see you found the right door”, says Quintix as he stands up. “ Make sure you close it, we don’t want any unwanted guests. The guards back there aren’t the nicest people”.
Derek touches the medallion to the door. Slowly, the door closes without a sound, leaving no seams.
“The King sends his regards and a small token of his appreciation.” Quintix hands Derek the box from the table
“Thanks Mr. Q”, says Derek
“Your welcome kid. You did good out there. I knew you would, I’ve been watching you for the last four years.  Anyway, go ahead and get changed, the Princess is waiting for you”, Quintix says as he walks out.

Opening the box, Derek finds a gorgeous black tuxedo with a green bow tie and cumberbund that match the Princess’s jade green dress.  Sticking out of the tuxedo pocket are two tickets to the prom and three $100 dollar bills. A note rests on the Tuxedo.
Derek examines the note.
“Dear Derek, it reads. Enjoy your time with my lovely daughter, she is very precious to me.  Here’s a little bit of money, buy her a nice dinner. (Hint: she loves frog legs but don’t tell Quintix). 
signed,
King Magnus
P.S. Have a good time and don’t get handsy”

Derek opens the door, outside, Elenor is standing there with a big smile on her face. She blushes slightly at the sight of Derek in a tuxedo.
“Let’s go Princess, I’ve been waiting for this night”, says Derek
“Don’t call me that”, she giggles. “I’ve been dreaming of this night for years”.


THE END



